Among the questions you sent in,
I found
one particularly interesting and insightful question: "
Teacher, I have
a question I'd like you to guide me on. I have
a female friend, a girl I've
known for four years since high school. We were very
close, but only in our
final year did I find out she was
working as a prostitute. I
know her family is very well-off,
highly educated, and successful in
business, yet she still chose to do such a despicable thing.
At first, I hated her, but after attending a
summer retreat, I felt great compassion
for her plight. I sincerely hope you can
guide me on how to help
her change her ways, because after all, we
were friends and helped each other since our school days.
Thank you, Teacher." "
Thank you for your question.
Today, I'm sharing this part to help
you understand the plight of girls
who work as prostitutes. I have a
very long story from this friend.
She wrote to me via email, and it was
very long."  Her story
is that she's not short of
money at all. That is,
she has plenty of
money, but she does something that makes
her feel guilty, but she can't
control it. She works as a prostitute
online, with
foreigners. She shared this with me, and I understand her
feelings. She has a
very strong sexual energy, and
she never feels
comfortable or
happy enough in this sexual activity.
She shared it with me,
tearfully, saying that she's never felt
comfortable, even with drugs,
she's always
craving sex. She's
not short of money. She even says she
doesn't need money for prostitution because she's
very talented at her job, and she's
very trusted by foreigners.
She says she has a certain
status, and she feels very ashamed of herself. She
feels very
guilty, and she can't control it.  She wants to get married because
she knows that if she gets married, she wo
n't be satisfied with
this. It's a tearful confession; she asked
me for advice.
She really wants to be a normal person,
satisfied with a normal life,
with a
husband. But she knows that she was once in
love and wasn't satisfied with her
lover, so she can't bring her feelings to the
person she
loves. That's [
music],
a case you need to
understand. When she confided in me like
that, I understood
one of the
problems with sexually active women.
The question she asked is
related to this issue:
their sexual energy is too strong.
I advised her on how to cultivate and
transform that
sexual energy. I guided her on how to
practice contemplation and deep thinking.
And she will shift her joy and
desire towards
contributing to others
through her intellect, words, and
actions.  It will reduce that craving,
it will transform that craving,
and she also promised that if you strive to do
that, her karmic force will cause
her to generate a very strong energy of
craving for a certain point. Now she
must transform it into desires for
acts of charity and good deeds.
She will change her karma, and
her mind's desire to do good deeds will generate
joy and happiness.
This joy will nourish her
and eliminate the energy of desire.
This is how she will become – homeless, not
poor, and not lacking money. So you should
advise your girlfriend like this: for
a while, she will control herself by listening to Dharma teachings on enlightenment
three times a day:
morning, noon, and evening. In the morning when she
wakes up, at noon before she goes to sleep, and in the
evening before she goes to bed, she should listen to
Dharma teachings on enlightenment. For example, she should
start with the Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra, as
taught by Venerable Thich Chuc Thai Minh. Because the
Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra is very precious and
brings enlightenment to many people in the world.  For
those who haven't listened yet, please do!
The Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra is very
precious, helping people understand
this world and using it as a way of thinking
about and perceiving the world,
leading to great personal growth.
If you listen to the
teacher's teachings repeatedly, and then
sit in one place and contemplate what you
've heard, for example, in the morning, just
listen to one thing: the impermanence of the world. Just
listen to the teacher's concise explanation, and
throughout the day, you will be immersed in the
contemplation of the impermanence of the world. This
will make your wisdom faster,
your contemplative ability will develop, and
your desire energy will decrease.
Those with a lot of desire energy should
use their contemplative ability more. When you contemplate
like that, you will feel
joy with your quick and sharp intellect.
That is happiness that will come
to you. Therefore, all of
you, even those not influenced by negative energy,
should listen to the
Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra, but listen sparingly.
Don't listen for an entire session; just listen to a part of it.
For example, regarding the impermanence of the world and the
peril of national affairs, you only hear about the impermanence of the world.
You can listen to it repeatedly and
contemplate it for a week, then
listen to the second part, "The peril of national affairs." If
you want to become
intelligent, then an intelligent person must
know how to observe and assess the situation.
Listening to this Dharma will guide your mind and
direction, allowing you to observe
events around you very quickly,
assess the situation very quickly, and handle it very
well. The Eight Great Enlightenment
Sutra is a
very precious sutra for both lay people and
monastics, making your wisdom
very quick and agile. If we know how to
practice it, I highly value this sutra. Then, you can
subdue anger,
greed, and ignorance, all
through this Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra,
if you know
how to practice it. It's not just about listening to
lectures repeatedly, then
listening to other lectures; we
won't absorb it. Instead,
after listening, we transform what the Buddha taught
into our own, transforming...  It is through
my teacher Thanh that
I can develop the intelligence within
myself. We have intelligence,
wisdom, agility, and
keenness. We develop these qualities,
right? We develop them
by observing the
world. When we know how to observe the
world quickly, when something
happens to us, we will be able to see
and grasp it. But if we
only focus on our own affairs,
we will be blind and unable to see anything.
Therefore, to overcome
our excessive desire,
we must think and observe a lot. To be able to adapt, we must listen to
and contemplate the Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra.
And to
motivate ourselves and live more actively, we must also
listen to the Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra, but remember to listen to
each sentence individually. Listen to each sentence and contemplate each
sentence, and you will see that in this life, you will
not be lost. No matter
where you are thrown, you will not be lost;
you will be able to handle it.  The situation changes very quickly. For
example, if someone else's mind is filled with
anger towards you, because you practice mindfulness of impermanence,
you know that this mind can be
extinguished, and you can help
that person extinguish this mind immediately. That's how
people who practice mindfulness quickly
respond. [
Applause]
[Music]
ch y